for 6 weeks now we've been reporting on
the war in Gaza and we can only do that
because of our brave colleagues in the
field who risk their lives to tell the
world the facts about what is happening
in one of the most dangerous places on
Earth right now and too many of them
lose their lives in the process the
committee to protect journalists says
the Israel Gaza War has seen the
deadliest month for reporters since
records began three decades ago so far
53 journalists and media workers have
been confirmed killed of them 46 were
Palestinian four Israeli and three were
lebanes another three are reported to be
missing other reporters have been
injured or arrested at the latest
addition to the statistic are reporter
Farah Omar and Camera operator rabi al-
mamari who were killed Tuesday in
southern Lebanon together with one other
person their employer the Al Maya Dean
tele televion channnel accused Israeli
forces of targeting them deliberately
because of the Channel's Pro Palestinian
reporting the IDF says it's looking into
the incident Farah Omar and Robie
al-mamari were buried today in
Beirut we can now speak to Sharie
Mansour he's the Middle East and North
Africa program coordinator for the
committee to protect journalists good to
have you on the show I want to start
with a case of Farah Omar and Robbie
almaari the two media workers killed in
southern Lebanon what can you tell us
about the circumstances of their
deaths well we can tell you that they
were uh already reporting an hour before
they were strike and they were head and
they were wearing press signs visibly
and you can also know that this channel
mayadin have been recently banned in
Israel under a new legislation emergency
legislations that basically allows the
government in Israel for the first time
to conduct outright censorship under
vague and suspicious accusation of
harming National morale and non harming
National Security there was also very
similar case Lebanese journalist for
reuter correspondent Asama Abdullah was
also killed by a shilling from the
Israeli side just 40 days ago a week
after the war has started and at least
six of his colleagues were also injured
in the same uh place we have called on
the Israeli Army to conduct quick
transparent investigation but also we
have supported and continue to support
International and independent
investigation and as we did we also call
for the Israeli Army to review their
roles of Engagement and reform them in
order to respect press Insignia include
safeguards for civilian population
including journalists we call for
Israeli allies the US government and
European government to raise this issues
directly and publicly with their Israeli
counterparts yeah the Israeli military
says it can't ensure the safety of
reporters working in the war zone do you
agree could they be doing more or are
they doing all they can to protect
journalism in this
environment absolutely they cannot evade
responsibilities under international law
to
exercise uh proportional unwarranted use
of force against journalists and against
media facilities because if they don't
do so it constitutes a possible war
crimes um the Israeli government have in
the past denied responsibilities have
used other tactics to evade
responsibility including pushing false
narratives to try and justify kill the
killings of those journalists we want to
make sure that live up to their
commitments that they've made in the
past and they've also are facing those
questions um from within Israel and from
their our lives about how to reform
those roles of Engagement yeah um you
have your eyes and your organization has
its eyes on many conflicts around the
world what makes the war in Gaza so
incredibly dangerous for
journalists it is the exponential risk
that is uh basically uh burned by local
photojournalists Palestinian Freelancers
who form uh 90% of those who were killed
this time and have had the same
percentage 90% of those who were killed
covering IDF activities and so over 21
years since 2001 we're Palestinian
journalists 18 out of 20 that we counted
killed in our report deadly pattern that
we released in May and we have seen this
deadly pattern continue and become more
deadly with this war around and it's
because those journalists were forced to
flee when there was no Safe Haven and no
exit the first few journalists who were
killed in Gaza were killed near the
southern Crossing in Rafa and near the
the northern Crossing in Ares and since
then they have been killed everywhere in
between including in the house in hanun
and Rafa City where they were told is
going to be safe we don't have too much
time but I do want to zoom out for a
second because it's not only in Gaza
that the daily lives of journalists have
become more dangerous what can you tell
us briefly if it's possible about what
has been happening to Media workers in
the West Bank since October
7th we have seen unprecedented uh uh
arrests 18 of them so far of journalists
local Palestinian journalists uh put
under administrative detention in
Military persecutions and some of them
released under house arrest under
restrictive condition that does not
allow them to operate we've seen
physical assault censorship even cyber
attacks to obstruct the vital role
journalist in the West Bank and Israel
can play in addition to outright
censorship when the Israeli government
have uh shut down Palestinian uh outlets
in the West Bank and also incited
against um El jazer and others who
provide critical coverage um from the
West Bank and Gaza that was of the
committee to protect journalists thanks
for your
time thank you for having
me